Documentation Updates (#152)
grid-parity-exchange/Prescient: doc/OnlineDocs/source/concepts/ruc_sced_cycle.rst

The Prescient Simulation Cycle
==============================

.. image:: ../_static/image/RucScedCycle.png
	:class: align-right

Prescient simulates the operation of a power generation network throughout a 
study horizon, finding the set of operational choices that satisfy demand at
the lowest possible cost.

A Prescient simulation consists of two repeating cycles, one nested in the
other. The outer cycle is the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) planning
cycle, which schedules changes in dispatchable generators' online status during
the cycle's period. The inner, more frequent cycle is the Security Constrained
Economic Dispatch (SCED) cycle, which determines dispatch levels for
dispatchable generators.

The RUC Cycle
-------------

The RUC cycle periodically generates a RUC plan. A RUC plan consists of two types of

> data: a unit commitment schedule and a pricing schedule. The unit commitment schedule

Reviewer: In order to compute day-ahead pricing data, the option `compute_market_settlements` must be set to `True` (the default is `False`).

indicates which dispatchable generators should be activated or deactivated during
upcoming time periods. The pricing schedule sets the contract price for expected power
delivery and for reserves (ancillary products). The RUC plan reflects the least expensive
way to satisfy predicted loads while honoring system constraints.

A new RUC plan is generated at regular intervals, at least once per day. A new
RUC plan always goes into effect at midnight of each day. If more than one
RUC plan is generated each day, then additional RUC plans take effect at equally
spaced intervals. For example, if 3 RUC plans are generated each day, then one
will go into effect at midnight, one at 8:00 a.m., and one at 4:00 p.m. Each
RUC plan covers the time period that starts when it goes into effect and ends
just as the next RUC plan becomes active.

A RUC plan is based on the current state of the system at the time the plan is 

> generated (particularly up- and down-times for dispatchable generators), and on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated (particularly the current dispatch and up- or down-time for dispatchable generators), and on
```

is 48 hours.

The simulation can be configured to generate RUC plans some number of hours before
they take effect. This is done by specifying a time of day for one of the plans to
be generated. The gap between the specified generation time and the next time a RUC
plan is scheduled to take effect is called the RUC gap. Each RUC plan still covers
the expected time period, from the time the plan takes effect until the next RUC plan
takes effect, but its decisions will be based on what is known at the time the RUC 
plan is generated.

The SCED Cycle
--------------

The SCED process selects dispatch levels for all active dispatchable generators 
in the current simulation time period. Dispatch levels are determined using a process
that is very similar to that used to build a RUC plan. The current state of the
system, together with forecasts for a number of future time periods, are examined to
select dispatch levels that satisfy current loads and forecasted future loads at the
lowest possible cost.

The SCED cycle is more frequent than the RUC cycle, with new dispatch levels selected 
at least once an hour. The SCED honors unit commitment decisions made in the RUC plan;

> whether each generator is active or inactive is dictatated by the RUC schedule 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whether each generator is committed or not is dictatated by the RUC schedule 
```

currently in effect.

Costs are also determined with each SCED, based on dispatchable generation selected by 

> the SCED process, as well as current actual demands and non-dispatchable generation levels.

Reviewer: We should also say something about the commitment and startup costs, which are determined by the RUC, but the final calculation is pulled from the SCED.
